---
Title: 001.0-1-WebAnatomy_and_MVC_Explained
Creation date: 15.12.2021 22:10
Modification date: Wednesday 15th December 2021 22:10:25
Author: MKraus
Tags: 🟢, aspnet, learning, web
Type:
---

[[001-Web/001-Web-MOC]]

**TOC**
- [[#001.0-1-WebAnatomy_and_MVC_Explained|001.0-1-WebAnatomy_and_MVC_Explained]]
	- [[#WebForm Anatomy|WebForm Anatomy]]
	- [[#Validation|Validation]]
	- [[#Beschreibung|Beschreibung]]
- [[#Other Stuff|Other Stuff]]
	- [[#State|State]]
	- [[#ViewState|ViewState]]
- [[#Authentication|Authentication]]
	- [[#SingleFactor Authentication|SingleFactor Authentication]]
	- [[#MultiFactor Authentication|MultiFactor Authentication]]
- [[#Security|Security]]
	- [[#UserProfiles|UserProfiles]]
	- [[#Settings|Settings]]
- [[#Web.Config|Web.Config]]
- [[#Links:|Links:]]
- [[#Referenzen|Referenzen]]
	- [[#Buchseiten|Buchseiten]]


# 001.0-1-WebAnatomy_and_MVC_Explained

##   WebForm Anatomy
   
- <Page Directive => how to compile
- <DocType = Type of markup => html, xhtml
- Wenn webpage komisch dann meist ein problem mit doctype
- Andere z.B. Split
- S 111 = 111 minimal webpage xhtml
- Css inline oder file.
- Debug = web.config
- Asp.Net App => App + shared Resource config settings
- Virtual Dir in IIS
- One ASP Net App == one AppDomain S 130 / precompile S 318
- .asax
- ! Jedes asp = cached automatisch ggf ausschalten
- ! Web PageEvents haben keine Events wie in C# sondern sind einfache Methoden. S 144
- Server.Transfer = zu neuer Seite ohne das User es bemerkt, der sieht nur original aufruf
- Bzw. Response.Redirect Websitename.
- ! Server HTML.Encode = ("< … >") => wird in Syntaktisch richtiges HTML umgewandelt.
-   App Events sind in Datei Global.asax
-   Maschine.config -> root web.config -> WeppApp web.config -> Seite web.config
-   HTML Server Controls
-   Only 2 events
-   Trigger postback
-   Server changed sind beide JSCRIPT
-   ASP.Net 2 hiddenfields
-   Event Target
-   Event Argument
-   GridView
-   Template Field
-   Command Name / Command Argument

⭐ TryUpdateModel => ModelBinding => Get DataValues from browser Request and populate properties of datamodel.
==! Vorraussetzung dafür ist => runat="server"??

z.B:
```CSharp
 if (this.TryUpdateModel(myOrder, new FormValueProvider(ModelBindingExecutionContext)));
```

##   Validation
Attributes -> [Required] on data Classes ! + <asp:ValidationSummary …. />
⭐  IsPostBack

## Beschreibung
_Auszug aus Buch_

In the MVC pattern, the data itself is encapsulated in a model object. The view object is the Windows Forms control that the data is bound to. All changes to the model are handled by an intermediary controller object, which is responsible for providing access to the data and for controlling any changes made to the data through the view object. The controller object provides a natural location for validating changes made to the data, and all user interface validation logic should be implemented here.

Figure 2.5 depicts the structural relationship between the three objects in the MVC pattern.

Figure 2.5   Objects in Model-View-Controller pattern

Using a controller object in this way has a number of advantages. You can configure a generic controller to provide custom validation rules, which are configurable at run time according to some contextual information (for example, the role of the user). Alternatively, you can provide a number of controller objects, with each controller object implementing specific validation rules, and then select the appropriate object at run time. Either way, because all validation logic is encapsulated in the controller object, the view and model objects do not need to change.

In addition to separating data, validation logic, and user interface controls, the MVC model gives you a simple way to automatically update the user interface when the underlying data changes. The controller object is responsible for notifying the user interface when changes to the data have occurred by some other programmatic means. Windows Forms data binding listens for events generated by the objects that are bound to the controls so that the user interface can automatically respond to changes made to the underlying data.

To implement automatic updates of the user interface, you should ensure that the controller implements a change notification event for each property that may change. Events should follow the naming convention < property>Changed, where < property> is the name of the property. For example, if the controller supports a Name property, it should also support a NameChanged event. If the value of the name property changes, this event should be fired so Windows Forms data binding can handle it and update the user interface.

The following code example defines a Customer object, which implements a Name property. The CustomerController object handles the validation logic for a Customer object and supports a Name property, which in turn represents the Name property on the underlying Customer object. This controller fires an event whenever the name is changed.

   
```csharp
public class Customer  
{  
 private string _name;  
 public Customer( string name ) { _name = name; }  
 public string Name  
 {  
 get { return _name; }  
 set { _name = value; }  
 }  
}  
public class CustomerController  
{  
 private Customer _customer = null;  
 public event EventHandler NameChanged;  
 public Customer( Customer customer )  
 {  
 this._customer = customer;  
 }  
 public string Name  
 {  
 get { return _customer.Name; }  
 set  
 {  
 	// TODO: Validate new name to make sure it is valid.  
 	_customer.Name = value;  
 	// Notify bound control of change.  
 	if ( NameChanged != null )  
 		NameChanged( this, EventArgs.Empty );  	
 }  
 }  
}
```

```ad-info 
Note Customer data source members need to be initialized when they are declared. In the preceding example, the customer.Name member needs to be initialized to an empty string. This is because the .NET Framework does not have a chance to interact with the object and set the default setting of an empty string before the data binding occurs. If the customer data source member is not initialized, the attempt to retrieve a value from an uninitialized variable causes a run-time exception.
```

In the following code example, the form has a TextBox object, textbox1, which needs to be bound to the customer's name. The code binds the Text property of the TextBox object to the Name property of the controller.

```csharp
_customer = new Customer( "Kelly Blue" );  
_controller = new CustomerController( _customer );  
Binding binding = new Binding( "Text", _controller, "Name" );  
textBox1.DataBindings.Add( binding );
```

If the name of the customer is changed (using the Name property on the controller), the NameChanged event is fired and the text box is automatically updated to reflect the new name value.

# Other Stuff
## State
State is bound to a specific page.

## ViewState
=> ==hiddenfield== + Eigenschaft 'EnableViewState' => Default True
VIEWSTATE = simple Base64 string => ❗ ==NUR NUTZEN WENN UNBEDINGT NÖTIG==
  
ggf encryption = @Page ViewStateEncryptionMode="Always" oder in Web.config <Page -"- />

❗ Objects können auch in State rein, dazu Attribute [Serializable] setzen.

❗ Cookies set => Response Object | get => Request Object ==> Sessionstate + forms.security auch benutzen.

|-> Expires ! Remove = ExpireDate < Today

❗ Caching - Chapter 19/20. = eine Session => eine SessionID

**Sessionstate** config => web.config Mode = StateService => eigener Service => ASP.Net State Service oder SqlServer

ApplicationState gilt für alle WebAnwendungen.

Logging = EventLog ( new EventLog(); Log.WriteEntry() )

! State kann aber ich in die DB

Themes= folder App_Themes + Skin => auch global = Themes Folder

Master = this(master) gecasted zu Name Master Page

Databinding = Seite 961


# Authentication
Cookies spielen dabei eine große Rolle :-)

```CSharp
	1.) Web.Config.
		<authentication mode="Forms">
  			<forms timeout="120" />
		</authentication>
	2.) Signin Signout in Form '

	protected void Page_Load(object sender, EventArgs e)
	        {
	            if (IsPostBack)
	            {
	                string user = Request["user"];
	                string pass = Request["pass"];
	                string action = Request["action"];
	                if (action == "login" && user == "Joe" && pass = "secret")
	                {
	                    FormsAuthentication.SetAuthCookie(user,false);
	                }
	                else
	                {
	                    FormsAuthentication.SignOut();
	                }
	                Response.Redirect(Request.Path);
	            }
	        }
	3.) Set Policy in Web.config
	
		<authentication mode="Forms">
			<forms timeout="120" loginUrl="/Account/Login.aspx" 			defaultUrl="/Default.aspx">
			</forms>
		</authentication>
		<authorization>
			<deny users="?"/>
		</authorization>
		</system.web>
	</configuration>
	// Nun redirect und routing , role provider
```

## SingleFactor Authentication
Damit ist User und Passwort gemeint

## MultiFactor Authentication
Damit ist User und Passwort und z.b. SMS , token gemeint

# Security
## UserProfiles
Per-User basis. Color preferences, adress information and more

## Settings
Die Settings werden in der Web.config geführt.

-   Configure a User profile provider  
    Mainly in Sql Server  
      
    Um Database mit Profile neu zu erzeugen => apsnet_reqsql.exe -E -S localhost -A p  
    Dialog started wenn keine Parameter übergeben werden, dann wird aber mehr angezeigt da dieses Tool mehr als nur die Default Database installiert.
-   Anonymous User allow  
    \<anonymousIdentification enabled="true"/>
-   Setting and Saving User Profile  
    In c# Code  
    Profile.FirstName =  
    Profile.LastName =  
    Profile.LastVisit = DateTime.Now; => z.b. in Session.End  
    Profile.Save();

# Web.Config
Jede WebSite und Folder kann eine Web.config haben. 
Weiterhin gibt es globale config dateien.

```ad-info
Wertigkeit ist so, das immer das näheste Web.config gewinnt. d.h in Folder.. Wenn nicht in Folder dann in Application usw…
```

---

# Links:
 -   [WebForms vs MVC](http://www.codeproject.com/Articles/528117/WebForms-vs-MVC)

# Referenzen
## Buchseiten
- S 167
- S 194 / 192
- S 247 
- S 232
- S 305
- S 385
- S 439
- S 346 o 3446
- S 502
- ==S 567==
- S 654 xml